Rugalytics is a Ruby API for Google Analytics.

= Warning - API under development

The Rugalytics API is in early development so it may change slightly over time.
It should be in working order, so please give it a test spin!

The source code is hosted at github. Feel free to fork the code if you have
something to contribute:

 http://github.com/robmckinnon/rugalytics


== Install as a Gem

Should be up at rubyforge, so to install:

 sudo gem install rugalytics


== Authenticate

Login with your Google Analytics user name and password:

 require 'rubygems'
 require 'rugalytics'

 Rugalytics.login 'username', 'password'


== Obtain Profile

Get profile using account name and profile name:

 profile = Rugalytics.find_profile('your_site.com', 'blog.your_site.com')


If account name and profile name are the same:

 profile = Rugalytics.find_profile('your_site.com')


== Get Profile Summary Statistics

Obtaining page views:

 profile.pageviews # default period is one month ending today
 => 160600

 profile.pageviews :from=>'2007-01-01'
 => 2267550

 profile.pageviews :from=>'2007-01-01', :to=>'2007-01-02'
 => 24980

The +pageviews+ method is doing this under the hood:

 report = profile.pageviews_report(:from=>'2007-01-01', :to=>'2007-01-02')

 report.pageviews_total
 => 24980

And under the hood, the +pageviews_total+ method is actually calling:

 report.pageviews_graph.sum_of_points
 => 24980

== Load a Report

The report name, e.g. 'Pageviews' or 'TrafficSources', is the rpt parameter from
the Google Analytics URL for a CSV report export, e.g.:

 https://www.google.com/analytics/reporting/export?fmt=2&...&&rpt=TrafficSourcesReport&...

From a page on the Analytics website, you can find the CSV URL by clicking on
the Export tab, and then mousing over the CSV option.

Let's load the TrafficSources report:

 report = profile.traffic_sources_report

 report.report_name
 => "Traffic Sources Overview"

 report.start_date
 => "28 May 2008"

 report.end_date
 => "4 June 2008"

 report.source_items.collect{|s| "#{s.sources}: #{s.visits}"}.first
 => "google (organic): 15210"

 report.keyword_items.collect{|k| "#{k.keywords}: #{k.visits}"}[1]
 => "oecd nz report summary 2007: 14"

Let's try another report, VisitorsOverview:

 report = profile.visitors_overview_report

 report.browser_items[1]
 => # Rugalytics::Item @percentage_visits="0.18", @visits="3140", @browser="Firefox"

 report.connection_speed_items[3]
 => # Rugalytics::Item @connection_speed="Dialup", @percentage_visits="0.06340057402849197", @visits="1100"

Let's now grab 100 lines of the Networks report:

 report = profile.networks_report :rows=>100

 report.items.size
 => 100

 report.items.first.network_location
 => "telecom xtra"


==Use in Rails

To use from Rails, make a config file rails_root/config/rugalytics.yml
with the following contents:

 ---
 account: [account_name]
 profile: [profile_name]
 username: [user_name]
 password: [pass_w]

Remember to tell your source control system to ignore this file! If you're
using git, this means adding config/rugalytics.yml to your .gitignore
file.

 vi .gitignore
 config/rugalytics.yml

You can now use Rugalytics from within Rails, and login will be done
automatically, e.g.:

 profile = Rugalytics.default_profile
 report = profile.top_content_report(:from=>(Date.today - 7) )
 top_items_over_week = report.items.sort_by{|i| i.unique_page_views.to_i}.reverse


==Acknowledgements

Rugalytics started life as a fork of jnunemaker's Statwhore. As the code and
project scope began to diverge significantly from Statwhore, a new project was
initiated. Rugalytics makes use of the googlebase gem to login to Google.

Rugalytics makes use of the morph gem to emerge Ruby class definitions at
runtime based on the contents of the CSV reports from Google Analytics.

==License

See LICENSE for the terms of this software.
